{"pronouns":"he/him","appearance":"A half-elf, son of a human father and an elven mother he never knew. Ganji mostly looks the part -- until you notice the eyes, faintly catlike and quick to catch light, or the too-smooth, unnervingly graceful way he moves, like a cat crossing a fence rail. It can be a little offputting to people who aren't used to it. He's eighteen, technically grown by most reckonings, though he rarely acts it.","biography":"Ganji was born in a small rural village and abandoned as an infant -- by his own reckoning, over nothing more than how he looked. Word of the odd, unnervingly graceful baby spread by rumor, and within months travelers came to investigate, convinced he might be something prophesied. The Tensor Sect took him in.\n\nThe Sect believes that mastering combat through perfect perception and prediction is the path to one day \"seeing god,\" and they raised Ganji as a prodigy of natural gifts -- inhumanly nimble, unnervingly perceptive -- while holding him to punishing standards for a devotion he never quite felt. He trained personally under the Sect's Headmaster, its strongest warrior, and made what friends he could. But there were no women among the Sect's ranks, and that was only one of many things that wore at him over the years.\n\nHe was meant to spend his required hours of solitude on religious study, but he often slipped away instead. It was on one of those escapes that he heard an old traveling musician -- forbidden from playing inside the Sect's walls -- practicing just outside them. The two struck a quiet bargain not to tell on each other, became friends over the musician's short stay, and Ganji learned to play the flute from him: his first real taste of something that wasn't devotion, discipline, or god. The Sect, for its part, once gave him a carving knife as a gift, a mark of how important they believed him to be -- an enchanted blade that never dulls and can shave stone like wood, though no one ever explained where its magic came from. Ganji used it to carve himself a quarterstaff, hollowed and fingerholed to double as a flute -- since he was meant to be training combat, not music, a 'weapon' that was secretly an instrument let him practice openly without ever needing to hide it.\n\nTwo weeks ago, tired of chasing a faith that never took root in him, Ganji slipped away from the Sect's halls in the dark of night. He's been on the road since, only now starting to slow down -- half-expecting that if he ever truly tries to leave for good, the Sect will send monks after him.\n\nHe doesn't spend much time wondering why he is the way he is. He'd rather find out who he's going to be. He fights because he's always been good at it and likes winning; he wants adventure, good company, maybe someone to fall for, and above all a reason to care about something the way his sect-brothers cared for their god.","playerNotes":"Fighting style: prefers fists and feet, but is just as happy with a weapon in hand -- especially the quarterstaff he carved himself, which doubles as a flute -- or whatever else is nearby. When he loses or embarrasses himself, he laughs it off and tries something reckless rather than sulking; laid-back, easygoing, almost Taoist in temperament. Traveling alone. Looking for fun, adventure, friendship, and maybe romance eventually, more than any grand destiny. Player is fine with character death and would enjoy Ganji's story surfacing as lore in a future campaign set in this world."}