--- PAGE 19 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
19
Character 
Creation
Choose a Character Sheet
You’ll record the main details of your character on 
a character sheet. Throughout this chapter, we use 
the term “character sheet” to mean whatever you 
use to track your character’s details, whether it’s a 
printed character sheet, a digital character sheet, or 
plain paper. Choose whichever style of sheet works 
for you, and then embark on creating a character!
Create Your Character
Here are the steps to make a character; each step is 
explored in detail:
1:  Choose a Class. Every adventurer is a member 
of a class. A class broadly describes a character’s 
vocation, special talents, and favored tactics.
2:  Determine Origin. A character’s origin includes 
two elements: background and species. How did 
the character spend the years leading up to a life 
of adventure? Who are the character’s ancestors? 
You can also choose your character’s languages.
3: Determine Ability Scores.  Much of what your 
character does in the game depends on the char -
acter’s six abilities.
4:  Choose an Alignment.  Alignment is a shorthand 
for your character’s moral compass.
5: Fill in Details.  Using the choices you’ve made, fill 
in the remaining details on your character sheet.
Step 1: Choose Class
Choose a class, and write it on your character sheet. 
The Class Overview table summarizes the classes. 
See “Classes” for the classes’ details.
Class Overview
Class Likes ... Primary 
Ability
Complexity
Barbarian Battle Strength Average
Bard Performing Charisma High
Cleric Gods Wisdom Average
Druid Nature Wisdom High
Fighter Weapons Strength 
or Dexterity
Low
Monk Unarmed 
combat
Dexterity 
and Wisdom
High
Paladin Defense Strength 
and Charisma
Average
Ranger Survival Dexterity 
and Wisdom
Average
Class Likes ... Primary 
Ability
Complexity
Rogue Stealth Dexterity Low
Sorcerer Power Charisma High
Warlock Occult lore Charisma High
Wizard Spellbooks Intelligence Average
Write Your Level
Write your character’s level on your character 
sheet. Typically, a character starts at level 1 and 
advances in level by adventuring and gaining Expe -
rience Points (XP).
 Write Your XP. Also record your Experience 
Points. A level 1 character has 0 XP. 
 Starting at a Higher Level. Your GM might start 
you at a higher level. If you start at level 3 or higher, 
write your chosen subclass on your character sheet. 
See the “Starting at Higher Levels” section later in 
“Character Creation” for more information.
Note Armor Training
Your class might give you training with certain 
categories of armor. Note your armor training on 
your character sheet. Armor training with a kind of 
armor means you can wear that armor effectively, 
gaining defensive bonuses from it. The categories of 
armor are described in “Equipment.”
Step 2: Character Origin
Determining your character’s origin involves choos -
ing a background, a species, and two languages.
 A character’s background represents the place 
and occupation that were most formative for the 
character. The combination of background, species, 
and languages provides fertile soil for your imagi -
nation as you ponder your character’s earliest days.
Choose a Background
Choose your character’s background, and write it on 
your character sheet. You can choose any of the back-
grounds detailed in “Character Origins,” and your GM 
might offer additional backgrounds as options.
 The background you choose influences step 3, 
when you determine your character’s ability scores. 
If you’re having trouble choosing, the Ability Scores 
and Backgrounds table shows which backgrounds 
benefit which ability scores. Look for your class’s 
primary ability there.
Ability Scores and Backgrounds
Ability Background
Strength Soldier
Dexterity Soldier
Constitution Soldier
Intelligence Acolyte\n--- PAGE 20 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
20
Ability Background
Wisdom Acolyte
Charisma Acolyte
 Record Your Feat. A background gives you a feat, 
which grants your character particular capabilities. 
Feats are detailed in “Feats.” Write the feat on your 
character sheet.
 Note Proficiencies. Your background gives profi -
ciency in two skills and with one tool. Record this 
information on your character sheet.
 Your class also gives proficiencies. Check your 
class description in “Classes” and note the proficien -
cies on your character sheet.
 The features table in your class description shows 
your Proficiency Bonus (described in “Playing the 
Game”), which is +2 for a level 1 character. Note this 
number on your character sheet. You’ll fill in other 
numbers connected to these proficiencies in step 5.
Choose Starting Equipment
Your background and class both provide starting 
equipment. Any coins that you gain at this step 
can be immediately spent on equipment from 
“Equipment.”
 Record your chosen equipment on your character 
sheet. Equipment is described in “Equipment,” but 
for now you can just write it all down and look up 
the specifics in “Equipment” later. Note any coins 
you have left after purchasing your equipment.
Choose a Species
Choose a species for your character. The following 
species options are detailed in “Character Origins”: 
Dragonborn, Dwarf, Elf, Gnome, Goliath, Halfling, 
Human, Orc, and Tiefling. Once you’ve chosen a spe -
cies, write it on your character sheet. Then record 
your species’ traits.
 Your character’s size and Speed are determined 
by the character’s species; record these in the ap -
propriate places on your character sheet as well 
(you may write just the first letter of your size).
Imagine Your Past and Present
Let your character’s background and species inspire 
how you imagine their past. That past fed into the 
character’s present. With that in mind, consider an -
swers to the following questions as your character:
• Who raised you?
• Who was your dearest childhood friend?
• Did you grow up with a pet?
• Have you fallen in love? If so, with whom?
• Did you join an organization, such as a guild or re-
ligion? If so, are you still a member of it?
• What elements of your past inspire you to go on 
adventures now?
Choose Languages
Your character knows at least three languages: 
Common plus two languages you roll or choose 
from the Standard Languages table. Knowledge of a 
language means your character can communicate in 
it, read it, and write it. Your class and other features 
might also give you languages.
 The Standard Languages table lists languages that 
are widespread in the setting. Every player charac -
ter knows Common. The other standard languages 
originated with the first members of the most 
prominent species in the setting and have since 
spread widely.
Standard Languages
1d12 Language
— Common
1 Common Sign Language
2 Draconic
3–4 Dwarvish
5–6 Elvish
7 Giant
8 Gnomish
9 Goblin
10 –11 Halfling
12 Orc
 The Rare Languages table lists languages that are 
either secret or derived from other planes of exis -
tence and thus less widespread in the worlds of the 
Material Plane. Some features let a character learn a 
rare language.
Rare Languages
Language Language
Abyssal Primordial*
Celestial Sylvan
Deep Speech Thieves’ Cant
Druidic Undercommon
Infernal
*Primordial includes the Aquan, Auran, Ignan, and Terran dialects. 
Creatures that know one of these dialects can communicate with 
those that know a different one.
Step 3: Ability Scores
To determine your character’s ability scores, you 
first generate a set of six numbers using the instruc -
tions below and then assign them to your six abili -
ties. “Playing the Game” explains what each ability 
means.\n--- PAGE 21 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
21
Generate Your Scores
Determine your ability scores by using one of the 
following three methods. Your GM might prefer you 
to use a particular one.
 Standard Array. Use the following six scores for 
your abilities: 15, 14, 13, 12, 10, 8.
 Random Generation. Roll four d6s and record 
the total of the highest three dice. Do this five more 
times, so you have six numbers.
 Point Cost. You have 27 points to spend on your 
ability scores. The cost of each score is shown on 
the Ability Score Point Costs table. For example, a 
score of 14 costs 7 of your 27 points.
Ability Score Point Costs
Score Cost 
8 0
9 1
10 2
11 3
Score Cost 
12 4
13 5
14 7
15 9 
Assign Ability Scores
Once you’ve generated six scores, assign them to 
Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wis -
dom, and Charisma, keeping in mind your class’s 
primary ability. Fill in the ability modifiers as well.
 If you’re using the Standard Array option, consult 
the Standard Array by Class table for suggestions 
on where to assign scores for your character’s class. 
The table puts the highest scores in a class’s main 
abilities. If you used a different method to gener -
ate the scores, you may still use this table to guide 
where you place your highest and lowest scores.
Standard Array by Class
Class Str. Dex. Con. Int. Wis. Cha.
Barbarian 15 13 14 10 12 8
Bard 8 14 12 13 10 15
Cleric 14 8 13 10 15 12
Druid 8 12 14 13 15 10
Fighter 15 14 13 8 10 12
Monk 12 15 13 10 14 8
Paladin 15 10 13 8 12 14
Ranger 12 15 13 8 14 10
Rogue 12 15 13 14 10 8
Sorcerer 10 13 14 8 12 15
Warlock 8 14 13 12 10 15
Wizard 8 12 13 15 14 10
Adjust Ability Scores
After assigning your ability scores, adjust them ac -
cording to your background. Your background lists 
three abilities; increase one of those scores by 2 and 
a different one by 1, or increase all three by 1. None 
of these increases can raise a score above 20.
 Some players like to increase their class’s primary 
ability, while others prefer to increase a low score.
Determine Ability Modifiers
Finally, determine your ability modifiers using the 
Ability Scores and Modifiers table. Write the modi -
fier next to each of your scores.
Ability Scores and Modifiers
Score Modifier
3 −4
4–5 −3
6–7 −2
8–9 −1
10 –11 +0
Score Modifier
12–13 +1
14–15 +2
16 –17 +3
18–19 +4
20 +5
Step 4: Alignment
Choose your character’s alignment from the options 
below, and note it on your character sheet.
 The game assumes that player characters aren’t of 
an evil alignment. Check with your GM before mak -
ing an evil character.
The Nine Alignments
A creature’s alignment broadly describes its ethical 
attitudes and ideals. Alignment is a combination of 
two factors: one identifies morality (good, evil, or 
neutral), and the other describes attitudes toward 
order (lawful, chaotic, or neutral).
 The summaries of the alignments below describe 
the typical behavior of a creature with that align -
ment; individuals can vary from that behavior.
 Lawful Good (LG). Lawful Good creatures en -
deavor to do the right thing as expected by society. 
Someone who fights injustice and protects the inno -
cent without hesitation is probably Lawful Good.
 Neutral Good (NG). Neutral Good creatures do the 
best they can, working within rules but not feeling 
bound by them. A kindly person who helps others 
according to their needs is probably Neutral Good.
 Chaotic Good (CG). Chaotic Good creatures act as 
their conscience directs with little regard for what 
others expect. A rebel who waylays a cruel baron’s 
tax collectors and uses the stolen money to help the 
poor is probably Chaotic Good.
 Lawful Neutral (LN). Lawful Neutral individuals 
act in accordance with law, tradition, or personal 
codes. Someone who follows a disciplined rule of 
life—and isn’t swayed either by the demands of 
those in need or by the temptations of evil—is prob -
ably Lawful Neutral.
 Neutral (N). Neutral is the alignment of those who 
prefer to avoid moral questions and don’t take sides, \n--- PAGE 22 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
22
u nali Gn Ed  c r Eatur Es
Most creatures that lack the capacity for rational 
thought don’t have alignments; they are unaligned. 
Sharks are savage predators, for example, but they 
aren’t evil; they are unaligned.
doing what seems best at the time. Someone who’s 
bored by moral debate is probably Neutral.
 Chaotic Neutral (CN). Chaotic Neutral creatures 
follow their whims, valuing their personal freedom 
above all else. A scoundrel who wanders the land 
living by their wits is probably Chaotic Neutral.
 Lawful Evil (LE). Lawful Evil creatures methodi -
cally take what they want within the limits of a code 
of tradition, loyalty, or order. An aristocrat exploit -
ing citizens while scheming for power is probably 
Lawful Evil.
 Neutral Evil (NE). Neutral Evil is the alignment of 
those who are untroubled by the harm they cause as 
they pursue their desires. A criminal who robs and 
murders as they please is probably Neutral Evil.
 Chaotic Evil (CE). Chaotic Evil creatures act 
with arbitrary violence, spurred by their hatred or 
bloodlust. A villain pursuing schemes of vengeance 
and havoc is probably Chaotic Evil.
Step 5: Character Creation Details
Now fill in the rest of your character sheet.
Record Class Features
Look at your class’s feature table in “Classes,” and 
write down the level 1 features. The class features 
are detailed there too.
  Some class features offer choices. Make sure to 
read all your features and make any offered choices.
Fill In Numbers
Note these numbers on your character sheet.
 Saving Throws. For the saving throws you have 
proficiency in, add your Proficiency Bonus to the ap -
propriate ability modifier and note the total. Some 
players also like to note the modifier for saving 
throws they’re not proficient in, which is just the 
relevant ability modifier.
 Skills.  For skills you have proficiency in, add your 
Proficiency Bonus to the ability modifier associated 
with that skill, and note the total. You might also 
wish to note the modifier for skills you’re not profi -
cient in, which is just the relevant ability modifier.
 Passive Perception. Sometimes your GM will de -
termine whether your character notices something 
without asking you to make a Wisdom (Perception) 
check; the GM uses your Passive Perception instead. 
Passive Perception is a score that reflects a general 
awareness of your surroundings when you’re not 
actively looking for something. Use this formula to 
determine your Passive Perception score:
Passive Perception = 10 + Wisdom (Perception) 
check modifier
Include all modifiers that apply to your Wisdom 
(Perception) checks. For example, if your character 
has a Wisdom of 15 and proficiency in the Percep -
tion skill, you have a Passive Perception of 14 (10 + 
2 for your Wisdom modifier + 2 for proficiency). 
 Hit Points. Your class and Constitution modifier 
determine your Hit Point maximum at level 1, as 
shown on the Level 1 Hit Points by Class table.
Level 1 Hit Points by Class
Class Hit Point Maximum
Barbarian 12 + Con. modifier
Fighter, Paladin, or Ranger 10 + Con. modifier
Bard, Cleric, Druid, Monk, 
Rogue, or Warlock
8 + Con. modifier
Sorcerer or Wizard 6 + Con. modifier
The character sheet includes room to note your 
current Hit Points when you take damage, as well as 
any Temporary Hit Points you might gain. There’s 
also space to track Death Saving Throws.
 Hit Point Dice. Your class’s description tells you 
the die type of your character’s Hit Point Dice (or 
Hit Dice for short); write this on your character 
sheet. At level 1, your character has 1 Hit Die. You 
can spend Hit Dice during a Short Rest to recover 
Hit Points. Your character sheet also includes space 
to note how many Hit Dice you’ve spent.
 Initiative.  Write your Dexterity modifier in the 
space for Initiative on your character sheet.
 Armor Class. Without armor or a shield, your 
base Armor Class is 10 plus your Dexterity modi -
fier. If your starting equipment includes armor or a 
Shield (or both), calculate your AC using the rules in 
“Equipment.” A class feature might give you a differ -
ent way to calculate your AC.
 Attacks.  In the Weapons & Damage Cantrips 
section of the character sheet, write your starting 
weapons. The attack roll bonus for a weapon with 
which you have proficiency is one of the following 
unless a weapon’s property says otherwise:
Melee attack bonus  = Strength modifier 
+ Proficiency Bonus
Ranged attack bonus  = Dexterity modifier  
 + Proficiency Bonus
 Look up the damage and properties of your 
weapons in “Equipment.” You add the same ability 
modifier you use for attacks with a weapon to your 
damage rolls with that weapon.
 Spellcasting. Note both the saving throw DC for 
your spells and the attack bonus for attacks you 
make with them, using these formulas:\n--- PAGE 23 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
23
Spell save DC = 8 + spellcasting ability modifier 
+ Proficiency Bonus
Spell attack bonus = spellcasting ability modifier 
+ Proficiency Bonus
 Your spellcasting ability modifier for a spell is de -
termined by whatever feature gives you the ability 
to cast the spell.
 Spell Slots, Cantrips, and Prepared Spells. If 
your class gives you the Spellcasting or Pact Magic 
feature, your class features table shows the number 
of spell slots you have available, how many cantrips 
you know, and how many spells you can prepare. 
Choose your cantrips and prepared spells, and note 
them—along with your number of spell slots—on 
your character sheet.
Level Advancement
While going on adventures, your character gains ex -
perience, represented by Experience Points (XP). A 
character who reaches a specified Experience Point 
total advances in capability. This advancement is 
called gaining a level.
 The Character Advancement table lists the XP 
you need to advance to a level and the Proficiency 
Bonus for a character of that level. When your XP 
total equals or exceeds a number in the Experience 
Points column, you reach the corresponding level.
Character Advancement
Level Experience Points Proficiency Bonus
1 0 +2
2 300 +2
3 900 +2
4 2,700 +2
5 6,500 +3
6 14,000 +3
7 23,000 +3
8 34,000 +3
9 48,000 +4
10 64,000 +4
11 85,000 +4
12 100,000 +4
13 120,000 +5
14 140,000 +5
15 165,000 +5
16 195,000 +5
17 225,000 +6
18 265,000 +6
19 305,000 +6
20 355,000 +6
Gaining a Level
When you gain a level, follow these steps:
1: Choose a Class. Most characters advance in the 
same class. However, you might decide to gain a 
level in another class using the rules in the “Mul -
ticlassing” section.
2: Adjust Hit Points and Hit Point Dice. Each time 
you gain a level, you gain an additional Hit Die. 
Roll that die, add your Constitution modifier to 
the roll, and add the total (minimum of 1) to your 
Hit Point maximum. Instead of rolling, you can 
use the fixed value shown in the Fixed Hit Points 
by Class table.
Fixed Hit Points by Class
Class Hit Points per Level
Barbarian 7 + Con. modifier
Fighter, Paladin, or Ranger 6 + Con. modifier
Bard, Cleric, Druid, Monk, 
Rogue, or Warlock
5 + Con. modifier
Sorcerer or Wizard 4 + Con. modifier
3: Record New Class Features.  Look at your class 
features table in “Classes,” and note the features 
you gain at your new level in that class. Make any 
choices offered by a new feature.
4: Adjust Proficiency Bonus. A character’s Pro -
ficiency Bonus increases at certain levels, as 
shown in the Character Advancement table and 
your class features table in “Classes.” When your 
Proficiency Bonus increases, increase all the 
numbers on your character sheet that include 
your Proficiency Bonus.
5: Adjust Ability Modifiers. If you choose a feat 
that increases one or more of your ability scores, 
your ability modifier also changes if the new 
score is an even number. When that happens, ad -
just all the numbers on your character sheet that 
use that ability modifier. When your Constitution 
modifier increases by 1, your Hit Point maximum 
increases by 1 for each level you have attained. 
For example, if a character reaches level 8 and 
increases their Constitution score from 17 to 18, 
the Constitution modifier increases to +4. The 
character’s Hit Point maximum then increases by 
8, in addition to the Hit Points gained for reach -
ing level 8.
Tiers of Play
With each new level, characters acquire new ca-
pabilities that equip them to handle greater chal -
lenges. As characters advance in level, the tone of 
the game also changes, and the stakes of the cam -
paign get higher. It’s helpful to think of a character’s 
(and a campaign’s) arc in terms of four tiers of play, \n--- PAGE 25 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
25
since Strength is the primary ability for Barbarians 
and Wisdom is the primary ability for Druids.
Experience Points
The Experience Point cost to gain a level is based on 
your total character level, not your level in a partic -
ular class, as shown in the Character Advancement 
table in “Character Creation.” For example, if you 
are a level 6 Cleric / level 1 Fighter, you must gain 
enough XP to reach level 8 before you can take your 
second level as a Fighter or your seventh level as a 
Cleric.
Hit Points and Hit Point Dice
You gain the Hit Points from your new class as de -
scribed for levels after 1. You gain the level 1 Hit 
Points for a class only when your total character 
level is 1.
 Add together the Hit Dice granted by all your 
classes to form your pool of Hit Dice. If these dice 
are the same die type, you can pool them together. 
For example, both the Fighter and the Paladin have 
a d10 Hit Die, so if you are a level 5 Fighter / level 5 
Paladin, you have ten d10 Hit Dice. If your classes 
give you Hit Dice of different types, track them sep -
arately. If you are a level 5 Cleric / level 5 Paladin, 
for example, you have five d8 Hit Dice and five d10 
Hit Dice.
Proficiency Bonus
Your Proficiency Bonus is based on your total char -
acter level, not your level in a particular class, as 
shown in the Character Advancement table. For 
example, if you are a level 3 Fighter / level 2 Rogue, 
you have the Proficiency Bonus of a level 5 charac -
ter, which is +3.
Proficiencies
When you gain your first level in a class other than 
your initial class, you gain only some of the new 
class’s starting proficiencies, as detailed in each 
class’s description in “Classes.”
Class Features
When you gain a new level in a class, you get its fea-
tures for that level. A few features have additional 
rules when you’re multiclassing. Check the infor-
mation about multiclassing included in each of your 
classes’ descriptions.
 Special rules apply to Extra Attack, Spellcasting, 
and features (such as Unarmored Defense) that give 
you alternative ways to calculate your Armor Class.
Armor Class
If you have multiple ways to calculate your Armor 
Class, you can benefit from only one at a time. 
For example, a Monk/Sorcerer with a Monk’s 
Unarmored Defense feature and a Sorcerer’s Dra-
conic Resilience feature must choose only one of 
those features as a way to calculate Armor Class.
Extra Attack
If you gain the Extra Attack feature from more than 
one class, the features don’t stack. You can’t make 
more than two attacks with this feature unless you 
have a feature that says you can (such as the Fight -
er’s Two Extra Attacks feature).
 Similarly, the Warlock’s Thirsting Blade invo-
cation, which grants you the Extra Attack feature 
with your pact weapon, doesn’t give you additional 
attacks if you also have Extra Attack.
Spellcasting
Your capacity for spellcasting depends partly on 
your combined levels in all your spellcasting classes 
and partly on your individual levels in those classes. 
Once you have the Spellcasting feature from more 
than one class, use the rules below. If you multiclass 
but have the Spellcasting feature from only one 
class, follow the rules for that class.
 Spells Prepared. You determine what spells you 
can prepare for each class individually, as if you 
were a single-classed member of that class. If you 
are a level 4 Ranger / level 3 Sorcerer, for example, 
you can prepare five level 1 Ranger spells, and you 
can prepare six Sorcerer spells of level 1 or 2 (as 
well as four Sorcerer cantrips). 
 Each spell you prepare is associated with one of 
your classes, and you use the spellcasting ability of 
that class when you cast the spell.
 Cantrips. If a cantrip of yours increases in power 
at higher levels, the increase is based on your total 
character level, not your level in a particular class, 
unless the spell says otherwise.
 Spell Slots. You determine your available spell 
slots by adding together the following:
• All your levels in the Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, 
and Wizard classes
• Half your levels (round up) in the Paladin and 
Ranger classes
Then look up this total level in the Level column of 
the Multiclass Spellcaster table. You use the slots for 
that level to cast spells of an appropriate level from 
any class whose Spellcasting feature you have.
 This table might give you spell slots of a higher 
level than the spells you prepare. You can use those 
slots but only to cast your lower-level spells. If a 
lower-level spell that you cast, like Burning Hands , 
has an enhanced effect when cast at a higher level, 
you can use the enhanced effect as normal.
 For example, if you are a level 4 Ranger / level 3 
Sorcerer, you count as a level 5 character when de -
termining your spell slots, counting all your levels 
as a Sorcerer and half your Ranger levels. As shown \n--- PAGE 47 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
47
Fighter
Core Fighter Traits
Primary Ability Strength or Dexterity
Hit Point Die D10 per Fighter level
Saving Throw 
Proficiencies
Strength and Constitution
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Acrobatics, Animal 
Handling, Athletics, History, 
Insight, Intimidation, Persua -
sion, Perception, or Survival
Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons
Armor Training Light, Medium, and Heavy ar -
mor and Shields
Starting Equipment Choose A, B, or C: (A) Chain 
Mail, Greatsword, Flail, 8 Jav -
elins, Dungeoneer’s Pack, and 
4 GP; (B) Studded Leather 
Armor, Scimitar, Short sword, 
Longbow, 20 Arrows, Quiver, 
Dungeoneer’s Pack, and 11 
GP; or (C) 155 GP
Becoming a Fighter …
As a Level 1 Character
• Gain all the traits in the Core Fighter Traits table.
• Gain the Fighter’s level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Fighter Features table.
As a Multiclass Character
• Gain the following traits from the Core Fighter 
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar-
tial weapons, and training with Light and Medium 
armor and Shields.
• Gain the Fighter’s level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Fighter Features table.
Fighter Class Features
As a Fighter, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Fighter levels. These 
features are listed on the Fighter Features table.
Level 1: Fighting Style
You have honed your martial prowess and gain a 
Fighting Style feat of your choice (see “Feats”). De -
fense is recommended.
 Whenever you gain a Fighter level, you can replace 
the feat you chose with a different Fighting Style 
feat.
Fighter Features
Level
Proficiency 
Bonus Class Features
Second 
Wind
Weapon 
Mastery
1 +2 Fighting Style, Second Wind, Weapon Mastery 2 3
2 +2 Action Surge (one use), Tactical Mind 2 3
3 +2 Fighter Subclass 2 3
4 +2 Ability Score Improvement 3 4
5 +3 Extra Attack, Tactical Shift 3 4
6 +3 Ability Score Improvement 3 4
7 +3 Subclass feature 3 4
8 +3 Ability Score Improvement 3 4
9 +4 Indomitable (one use), Tactical Master 3 4
10 +4 Subclass feature 4 5
11 +4 Two Extra Attacks 4 5
12 +4 Ability Score Improvement 4 5
13 +5 Indomitable (two uses), Studied Attacks 4 5
14 +5 Ability Score Improvement 4 5
15 +5 Subclass feature 4 5
16 +5 Ability Score Improvement 4 6
17 +6 Action Surge (two uses), Indomitable (three uses) 4 6
18 +6 Subclass feature 4 6
19 +6 Epic Boon 4 6
20 +6 Three Extra Attacks 4 6\n--- PAGE 48 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
48
Level 1: Second Wind
You have a limited well of physical and mental 
stamina that you can draw on. As a Bonus Action, 
you can use it to regain Hit Points equal to 1d10 
plus your Fighter level.
 You can use this feature twice. You regain one 
expended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you 
regain all expended uses when you finish a Long 
Rest.
 When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain 
more uses of this feature, as shown in the Second 
Wind column of the Fighter Features table.
Level 1: Weapon Mastery
Your training with weapons allows you to use the 
mastery properties of three kinds of Simple or Mar -
tial weapons of your choice. Whenever you finish 
a Long Rest, you can practice weapon drills and 
change one of those weapon choices.
 When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain 
the ability to use the mastery properties of more 
kinds of weapons, as shown in the Weapon Mastery 
column of the Fighter Features table.
Level 2: Action Surge
You can push yourself beyond your normal limits 
for a moment. On your turn, you can take one addi -
tional action, except the Magic action.
 Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. Starting at 
level 17, you can use it twice before a rest but only 
once on a turn.
Level 2: Tactical Mind
You have a mind for tactics on and off the battle -
field. When you fail an ability check, you can expend 
a use of your Second Wind to push yourself toward 
success. Rather than regaining Hit Points, you roll 
1d10 and add the number rolled to the ability check, 
potentially turning it into a success. If the check still 
fails, this use of Second Wind isn’t expended.
Level 3: Fighter Subclass
You gain a Fighter subclass of your choice. The 
Champion subclass is detailed after this class’s de -
scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Fighter levels. For the rest 
of your career, you gain each of your subclass’s fea-
tures that are of your Fighter level or lower.
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Fighter levels 
6, 8, 12, 14, and 16.
Level 5: Extra Attack
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn.
Level 5: Tactical Shift
Whenever you activate your Second Wind with a 
Bonus Action, you can move up to half your Speed 
without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
Level 9: Indomitable
If you fail a saving throw, you can reroll it with a 
bonus equal to your Fighter level. You must use the 
new roll, and you can’t use this feature again until 
you finish a Long Rest.
 You can use this feature twice before a Long Rest 
starting at level 13 and three times before a Long 
Rest starting at level 17.
Level 9: Tactical Master
When you attack with a weapon whose mastery 
property you can use, you can replace that property 
with the Push, Sap, or Slow property for that attack.
Level 11: Two Extra Attacks
You can attack three times instead of once when -
ever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Level 13: Studied Attacks
You study your opponents and learn from each at -
tack you make. If you make an attack roll against a 
creature and miss, you have Advantage on your next 
attack roll against that creature before the end of 
your next turn.
Level 19: Epic Boon
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see “Feats”) or another 
feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of 
Combat Prowess is recommended.
Level 20: Three Extra Attacks
You can attack four times instead of once whenever 
you take the Attack action on your turn.\n--- PAGE 49 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
49
Fighter Subclass: Champion
Pursue Physical Excellence in Combat
A Champion focuses on the development of martial 
prowess in a relentless pursuit of victory. Champi -
ons combine rigorous training with physical excel -
lence to deal devastating blows, withstand peril, 
and garner glory. Whether in athletic contests or 
bloody battle, Champions strive for the crown of the 
victor.
Level 3: Improved Critical
Your attack rolls with weapons and Unarmed 
Strikes can score a Critical Hit on a roll of 19 or 20 
on the d20.
Level 3: Remarkable Athlete
Thanks to your athleticism, you have Advantage on 
Initiative rolls and Strength (Athletics) checks.
 In addition, immediately after you score a Critical 
Hit, you can move up to half your Speed without 
provoking Opportunity Attacks.
Level 7: Additional Fighting Style
You gain another Fighting Style feat of your choice.
Level 10: Heroic Warrior
The thrill of battle drives you toward victory. 
During combat, you can give yourself Heroic Inspi -
ration whenever you start your turn without it.
Level 15: Superior Critical
Your attack rolls with weapons and Unarmed 
Strikes can now score a Critical Hit on a roll of 
18–20 on the d20.
Level 18: Survivor
You attain the pinnacle of resilience in battle, giving 
you these benefits.
 Defy Death.  You have Advantage on Death Saving 
Throws. Moreover, when you roll 18–20 on a Death 
Saving Throw, you gain the benefit of rolling a 20 on 
it.
 Heroic Rally. At the start of each of your turns, 
you regain Hit Points equal to 5 plus your Constitu -
tion modifier if you are Bloodied and have at least 1 
Hit Point.
Monk
Core Monk Traits
Primary Ability Dexterity and Wisdom
Hit Point Die D8 per Monk level
Saving Throw 
Proficiencies
Strength and Dexterity
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Acrobatics, Athlet -
ics, History, Insight, Religion, 
or Stealth
Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons and Martial 
weapons that have the Light 
property
Tool Proficiencies Choose one type of Artisan’s 
Tools or Musical Instrument (see 
“Equipment”)
Armor Training None
Starting Equipment Choose A or B: (A) Spear, 5 
Daggers, Artisan’s Tools or 
Musical Instrument chosen 
for the tool proficiency above, 
Explorer’s Pack, and 11 GP; or 
(B) 50 GP
Becoming a Monk …
As a Level 1 Character
• Gain all the traits in the Core Monk Traits table.
• Gain the Monk’s level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Monk Features table.
As a Multiclass Character
• Gain the Hit Point Die trait from the Core Monk 
Traits table.
• Gain the Monk’s level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Monk Features table.
Monk Class Features
As a Monk, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Monk levels. These 
features are listed in the Monk Features table.\n--- PAGE 83 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
83
Character Origins
Character Backgrounds
Your character’s background is a collection of char -
acteristics that represent the place and occupation 
that were most formative before your character em -
barked on a life of adventure.
Parts of a Background
A background includes the following parts.
Ability Scores
A background lists three of your character’s ability 
scores. Increase one by 2 and another one by 1, or 
increase all three by 1. None of these increases can 
raise a score above 20.
Feat
A background gives your character a specified Ori -
gin feat (described in “Feats”).
Skill Proficiencies
A background gives your character proficiency in 
two specified skills.
Tool Proficiency
Each background gives a character proficiency with 
one tool—either a specific tool or one chosen from 
the Artisan’s Tools category. Tools are detailed in 
“Equipment.”
Equipment
Each background offers a choice between a package 
of equipment and 50 GP.
Background Descriptions
Acolyte
Ability Scores: Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma
Feat: Magic Initiate (Cleric) (see “Feats”)
Skill Proficiencies:  Insight and Religion
Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher’s Supplies
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Calligrapher’s Supplies, 
Book (prayers), Holy Symbol, Parchment (10 sheets), 
Robe, 8 GP; or (B) 50 GP
Criminal
Ability Scores: Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence
Feat: Alert (see “Feats”)
Skill Proficiencies:  Sleight of Hand and Stealth
Tool Proficiency: Thieves’ Tools
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers, Thieves’ 
Tools, Crowbar, 2 Pouches, Traveler’s Clothes, 
16 GP; or (B) 50 GP
Sage
Ability Scores: Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom
Feat: Magic Initiate (Wizard) (see “Feats”)
Skill Proficiencies:  Arcana and History
Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher’s Supplies
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Quarterstaff, Callig -
rapher’s Supplies, Book (history), Parchment (8 
sheets), Robe, 8 GP; or (B) 50 GP
Soldier
Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution
Feat: Savage Attacker (see “Feats”)
Skill Proficiencies:  Athletics and Intimidation
Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of  Gaming Set (see 
“Equipment”)
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Spear, Shortbow, 20 
Arrows, Gaming Set (same as above), Healer’s Kit, 
Quiver, Traveler’s Clothes, 14 GP; or (B) 50 GP
Character Species
When you choose your character’s species, you 
determine whether your character is a human or a 
member of a fantastical species, such as dragonborn 
or gnome.
 The peoples of the multiverse hail from different 
worlds and include many kinds of sapient life forms. 
A player character’s species is the set of game traits 
that an adventurer gains from being one of those 
life forms.
 Some species can trace their origin to a single 
world, plane of existence, or god, while other spe -
cies first appeared in multiple realms at once. 
Whatever a species’ genesis, its members have 
spread across the multiverse and contribute to 
many different cultures.
 Members of most species live for about 80 years, 
with exceptions noted in the text about the spe -
cies in “Character Origins.” Regardless of life span, 
members of all species reach physical maturity at 
about the same age. Your character can be any age 
that isn’t beyond their species’ normal life span.
Parts of a Species
A species includes the following parts.
Creature Type
A character’s species determines the character’s 
creature type, which is described in “Rules Glos -
sary.” Every species in “Character Origins” is Hu -
manoid; playable non-Humanoid species appear in 
other books.
Size
Your character’s species determines the character’s 
size. Individuals within a species cover a wide range 
of heights, and some species include such diversity \n--- PAGE 84 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
84
of size that you can choose whether your character 
is Small or Medium.
Speed
Your character’s species determines the character’s 
Speed.
Special Traits
Each species gives a character special traits—
unique characteristics based on the species’ physi -
ology or magical nature. When you choose a species, 
your character gets all the special traits listed for it. 
Some traits involve making a choice from a handful 
of options.
Species Descriptions
Dragonborn
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 5–7 feet tall)
Speed: 30 feet
As a Dragonborn, you have these special traits.
 Draconic Ancestry. Your lineage stems from a 
dragon progenitor. Choose the kind of dragon from 
the Draconic Ancestors table. Your choice affects 
your Breath Weapon and Damage Resistance traits 
as well as your appearance.
Draconic Ancestors
Dragon Damage Type Dragon Damage Type
Black Acid Gold Fire
Blue Lightning Green Poison
Brass Fire Red Fire
Bronze Lightning Silver Cold
Copper Acid White Cold
 Breath Weapon. When you take the Attack action 
on your turn, you can replace one of your attacks 
with an exhalation of magical energy in either a 
15-foot Cone or a 30-foot Line that is 5 feet wide 
(choose the shape each time). Each creature in that 
area must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus 
your Constitution modifier and Proficiency Bonus). 
On a failed save, a creature takes 1d10 damage of 
the type determined by your Draconic Ancestry 
trait. On a successful save, a creature takes half as 
much damage. This damage increases by 1d10 when 
you reach character levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 
17 (4d10). 
 You can use this Breath Weapon a number of 
times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you re -
gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
 Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to the 
damage type determined by your Draconic Ances -
try trait.
 Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet.
 Draconic Flight. When you reach character level 
5, you can channel draconic magic to give yourself 
temporary flight. As a Bonus Action, you sprout 
spectral wings on your back that last for 10 minutes 
or until you retract the wings (no action required) 
or have the Incapacitated condition. During that 
time, you have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed. Your 
wings appear to be made of the same energy as your 
Breath Weapon. Once you use this trait, you can’t 
use it again until you finish a Long Rest.
Dwarf
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 4–5 feet tall)
Speed: 30 feet
As a Dwarf, you have these special traits.
 Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
120 feet.
 Dwarven Resilience. You have Resistance to 
Poison damage. You also have Advantage on sav -
ing throws you make to avoid or end the Poisoned 
condition.
 Dwarven Toughness. Your Hit Point maximum 
increases by 1, and it increases by 1 again whenever 
you gain a level.
 Stonecunning.  As a Bonus Action, you gain Trem -
orsense with a range of 60 feet for 10 minutes. You 
must be on a stone surface or touching a stone sur -
face to use this Tremorsense. The stone can be natu -
ral or worked. 
 You can use this Bonus Action a number of times 
equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all 
expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
Elf
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 5–6 feet tall)
Speed: 30 feet
As an Elf, you have these special traits.
 Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet.
 Elven Lineage. You are part of a lineage that 
grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a lineage 
from the Elven Lineages table. You gain the level 1 
benefit of that lineage.
 When you reach character levels 3 and 5, you 
learn a higher-level spell, as shown on the table. 
You always have that spell prepared. You can cast it 
once without a spell slot, and you regain the ability 
to cast it in that way when you finish a Long Rest. 
You can also cast the spell using any spell slots you 
have of the appropriate level.\n--- PAGE 85 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
85
 Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell -
casting ability for the spells you cast with this trait 
(choose the ability when you select the lineage).
 Fey Ancestry. You have Advantage on saving 
throws you make to avoid or end the Charmed 
condition.
 Keen Senses. You have proficiency in the Insight, 
Perception, or Survival skill.
 Trance.  You don’t need to sleep, and magic can’t 
put you to sleep. You can finish a Long Rest in 4 
hours if you spend those hours in a trancelike medi -
tation, during which you retain consciousness.
Gnome
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Small (about 3–4 feet tall)
Speed: 30 feet
As a Gnome, you have these special traits.
 Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet.
 Gnomish Cunning. You have Advantage on Intelli -
gence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws.
 Gnomish Lineage. You are part of a lineage that 
grants you supernatural abilities. Choose one of the 
following options; whichever one you choose, Intel -
ligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting 
ability for the spells you cast with this trait (choose 
the ability when you select the lineage):
Forest Gnome. You know the Minor Illusion cantrip. 
You also always have the Speak with Animals  spell 
prepared. You can cast it without a spell slot a 
number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, 
and you regain all expended uses when you finish 
a Long Rest. You can also use any spell slots you 
have to cast the spell.
Rock Gnome. You know the Mending and Presti-
digitation cantrips. In addition, you can spend 10 
minutes casting Prestidigitation  to create a Tiny 
clockwork device (AC 5, 1 HP), such as a toy, fire 
starter, or music box. When you create the device, 
you determine its function by choosing one effect 
from Prestidigitation ; the device produces that 
effect whenever you or another creature takes a 
Bonus Action to activate it with a touch. If the cho -
sen effect has options within it, you choose one of 
those options for the device when you create it. 
For example, if you choose the spell’s ignite-extin-
guish effect, you determine whether the device 
ignites or extinguishes fire; the device doesn’t do 
both. You can have three such devices in existence 
at a time, and each falls apart 8 hours after its 
creation or when you dismantle it with a touch as 
a Utilize action.
Goliath
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 7–8 feet tall)
Speed: 35 feet
As a Goliath, you have these special traits.
 Giant Ancestry. You are descended from Giants. 
Choose one of the following benefits—a supernatu -
ral boon from your ancestry; you can use the chosen 
benefit a number of times equal to your Proficiency 
Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you 
finish a Long Rest:
Cloud’s Jaunt (Cloud Giant). As a Bonus Action, you 
magically teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied 
space you can see.
Fire’s Burn (Fire Giant). When you hit a target 
with an attack roll and deal damage to it, you can 
also deal 1d10 Fire damage to that target.
Frost’s Chill (Frost Giant). When you hit a target 
with an attack roll and deal damage to it, you 
can also deal 1d6 Cold damage to that target and 
reduce its Speed by 10 feet until the start of your 
next turn.
Hill’s Tumble (Hill Giant). When you hit a Large 
or smaller creature with an attack roll and deal 
damage to it, you can give that target the Prone 
condition.
Stone’s Endurance (Stone Giant). When you take 
damage, you can take a Reaction to roll 1d12. Add 
your Constitution modifier to the number rolled 
and reduce the damage by that total.
Elven Lineages
Lineage Level 1 Level 3 Level 5
Drow The range of your Darkvision increases to 120 feet.   
You also know the Dancing Lights  cantrip.
Faerie Fire Darkness
High Elf You know the Prestidigitation  cantrip. Whenever you finish 
a Long Rest, you can replace that cantrip with a different 
cantrip from the Wizard spell list.
Detect Magic Misty Step
Wood Elf Your Speed increases to 35 feet. You also know the 
Druidcraft cantrip.
Longstrider Pass without Trace\n--- PAGE 86 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
86
Storm’s Thunder (Storm Giant). When you take 
damage from a creature within 60 feet of you, you 
can take a Reaction to deal 1d8 Thunder damage 
to that creature.
 Large Form. Starting at character level 5, you can 
change your size to Large as a Bonus Action if you’re 
in a big enough space. This transformation lasts for 
10 minutes or until you end it (no action required). 
For that duration, you have Advantage on Strength 
checks, and your Speed increases by 10 feet. Once 
you use this trait, you can’t use it again until you 
finish a Long Rest.
 Powerful Build. You have Advantage on any abil-
ity check you make to end the Grappled condition. 
You also count as one size larger when determining 
your carrying capacity.
Halfling
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Small (about 2–3 feet tall)
Speed: 30 feet
As a Halfling, you have these special traits.
 Brave.  You have Advantage on saving throws you 
make to avoid or end the Frightened condition.
 Halfling Nimbleness. You can move through the 
space of any creature that is a size larger than you, 
but you can’t stop in the same space.
 Luck.  When you roll a 1 on the d20 of a D20 Test, 
you can reroll the die, and you must use the new 
roll.
 Naturally Stealthy. You can take the Hide action 
even when you are obscured only by a creature that 
is at least one size larger than you.
Human
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 4–7 feet tall) or Small (about 2–4 
feet tall), chosen when you select this species
Speed: 30 feet
As a Human, you have these special traits.
 Resourceful. You gain Heroic Inspiration when-
ever you finish a Long Rest.
 Skillful.  You gain proficiency in one skill of your 
choice.
 Versatile. You gain an Origin feat of your choice 
(see “Feats”). Skilled is recommended.
Orc
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 6–7 feet tall)
Speed: 30 feet
As an Orc, you have these special traits.
 Adrenaline Rush. You can take the Dash action as 
a Bonus Action. When you do so, you gain a number 
of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Proficiency 
Bonus.
 You can use this trait a number of times equal 
to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all ex -
pended uses when you finish a Short or Long Rest.
 Darkvision.  You have Darkvision with a range of 
120 feet.
 Relentless Endurance. When you are reduced to 
0 Hit Points but not killed outright, you can drop to 
1 Hit Point instead. Once you use this trait, you can’t 
do so again until you finish a Long Rest.
Tiefling
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 4–7 feet tall) or Small (about 3–4 
feet tall), chosen when you select this species
Speed: 30 feet
As a Tiefling, you have the following special traits.
 Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 
60 feet.
 Fiendish Legacy. You are the recipient of a legacy 
that grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a leg -
acy from the Fiendish Legacies table. You gain the 
level 1 benefit of the chosen legacy.
 When you reach character levels 3 and 5, you 
learn a higher-level spell, as shown on the table. 
You always have that spell prepared. You can cast it 
once without a spell slot, and you regain the ability 
to cast it in that way when you finish a Long Rest. 
You can also cast the spell using any spell slots you 
have of the appropriate level.
 Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell -
casting ability for the spells you cast with this trait 
(choose the ability when you select the legacy).
 Otherworldly Presence.  You know the Thauma-
turgy cantrip. When you cast it with this trait, the 
spell uses the same spellcasting ability you use for 
your Fiendish Legacy trait.
Fiendish Legacies
Legacy Level 1 Level 3 Level 5
Abyssal You have Resistance to Poison damage. 
You also know the Poison Spray cantrip.
Ray of Sickness Hold Person
Chthonic You have Resistance to Necrotic damage. 
You also know the Chill Touch cantrip.
False Life Ray of Enfeeblement
Infernal You have Resistance to Fire damage. 
You also know the Fire Bolt cantrip.
Hellish Rebuke Darkness\n--- PAGE 99 ---\nSystem Reference Document 5.2
99
 Fuel. Oil serves as fuel for Lamps and Lanterns. 
Once lit, a flask of Oil burns for 6 hours in a Lamp or 
Lantern. That duration doesn’t need to be consecu -
tive; you can extinguish the burning Oil (as a Utilize 
action) and rekindle it again until it has burned for a 
total of 6 hours.
Paper (2 SP)
One sheet of Paper can hold about 250 handwritten 
words.
Parchment (1 SP)
One sheet of Parchment can hold about 250 hand -
written words.
Perfume (5 GP)
Perfume comes in a 4-ounce vial. For 1 hour after 
applying Perfume to yourself, you have Advantage 
on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to influence 
an Indifferent Humanoid within 5 feet of yourself.
Poison, Basic (100 GP)
As a Bonus Action, you can use a vial of Basic Poison 
to coat one weapon or up to three pieces of ammu -
nition. A creature that takes Piercing or Slashing 
damage from the poisoned weapon or ammunition 
takes an extra 1d4 Poison damage. Once applied, 
the poison retains potency for 1 minute or until its 
damage is dealt, whichever comes first.
Pole (5 CP)
A Pole is 10 feet long. You can use it to touch 
something up to 10 feet away. If you must make a 
Strength (Athletics) check as part of a High or Long 
Jump, you can use the Pole to vault, giving yourself 
Advantage on the check.
Pot, Iron (2 GP)
An Iron Pot holds up to 1 gallon.
Potion of Healing (50 GP)
This potion is a magic item. As a Bonus Action, you 
can drink it or administer it to another creature 
within 5 feet of yourself. The creature that drinks 
the magical red fluid in this vial regains 2d4 + 2 Hit 
Points.
Pouch (5 SP)
A Pouch holds up to 6 pounds within one-fifth of a 
cubic foot.
Priest’s Pack (33 GP)
A Priest’s Pack contains the following items: Back -
pack, Blanket, Holy Water, Lamp, 7 days of Rations, 
Robe, and Tinderbox.
Quiver (1 GP)
A Quiver holds up to 20 Arrows.
Ram, Portable (4 GP)
You can use a Portable Ram to break down doors. 
When doing so, you gain a +4 bonus to the Strength 
check. One other character can help you use the 
ram, giving you Advantage on this check.
Rations (5 SP)
Rations consist of travel-ready food, including jerky, 
dried fruit, hardtack, and nuts. See “Malnutrition” 
in “Rules Glossary” for the risks of not eating.
Robe (1 GP)
A Robe has vocational or ceremonial significance. 
Some events and locations admit only people wear -
ing a Robe bearing certain colors or symbols.
Rope (1 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can tie a knot with Rope if 
you succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) 
check. The Rope can be burst with a successful DC 
20 Strength (Athletics) check.
 You can bind an unwilling creature with the Rope 
only if the creature has the Grappled, Incapacitated, 
or Restrained condition. If the creature’s legs are 
bound, the creature has the Restrained condition 
until it escapes. Escaping the Rope requires the 
creature to make a successful DC 15 Dexterity (Ac -
robatics) check as an action.
Sack (1 CP)
A Sack holds up to 30 pounds within 1 cubic foot.
Scholar’s Pack (40 GP)
A Scholar’s Pack contains the following items: Back-
pack, Book, Ink, Ink Pen, Lamp, 10 flasks of Oil, 10 
sheets of Parchment, and Tinderbox.
Shovel (2 GP)
Working for 1 hour, you can use a Shovel to dig a 
hole that is 5 feet on each side in soil or similar 
material.
Signal Whistle (5 CP)
When blown as a Utilize action, a Signal Whistle 
produces a sound that can be heard up to 600 feet 
away.
Spell Scroll (Cantrip, 30 GP;  
Level 1, 50 GP)
A Spell Scroll (Cantrip) or Spell Scroll (Level 1) is a 
magic item that bears the words of a cantrip or level 
1 spell, respectively, determined by the scroll’s cre -
ator. If the spell is on your class’s spell list, you can 
read the scroll and cast the spell using its normal 
casting time and without providing any Material 
components.
 If the spell requires a saving throw or an attack 
roll, the spell save DC is 13, and the attack bonus 
is +5. The scroll disintegrates when the casting is 
completed.